>> Brian Holt: Hopefully you had
an opportunity to give this a shot.
These kinda ranged in difficulty from
pretty simple to really, really hard.
And so yeah, I think it's good for
you to go through these and
kinda see different ways of coding and
problems to solve.
So let's go ahead and
do some of these together.
The first one here should have been done
for you, the addTwoToEveryNumberInTheList.
>> Brian Holt: Just so
you can kinda see how these tests work.
So let's go through and
do findLargestNumber.
So I showed you a bunch of different
ways to do loops yesterday, and
you could've chosen your favorite.
You could've use forEach,
you could've use a for loop.
You could've used a while
loop if you'd wanted to.
Any one of these would
have been acceptable.
So I have here doing it in a for loop, so
let's just go ahead and do it that way.
>> Brian Holt: So
we're gonna start by saying
let largest = list[0].
I guess this is this is making
the assumption that there's something in
the list, but
I guess it could be undefined as well, so.
And then what we'll do is we'll
move over the rest of the list.
And we'll try and keep the largest
number that we see here in this largest.
So here the next thing I'm gonna say,
for(let i = 0,
i is less than list.length; i++).
So why did I choose a for loop here?
Well in general,
when you're operating on arrays,
it's just a good indication that
you're probably gonna use a for loop.
Because you wanna get this
little dynamic right here,
where i is less than list.length.
That just works really well for
looping over an entire array.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then all you're gonna ask here is
if(list[i] is greater than largest),
then you're gonna say largest = list[i].
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so you can go
through the entire for loop here.
And actually, since we already
started with list[0] here,
we can actually start this 1, right?
Because we don't have to check 0 again.
So it's not that inefficient,
but you might as well, right?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, or the other thing
you definitely could've done here
is you could've just done this and
said, let largest.
And then said let i = 0,
either one of those is fine.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then down here
all you have to do is return largest.
Question?
>> Speaker 2: So can you scroll up
a little bit?
>> Brian Holt: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: So
that wouldn't be an issue, since you're
asking if the first item in the list,
or if any item in the list is greater than
largest the first time it goes through
the for loop.
Because you haven't said what largest is,
you can call greater than on something
that like doesn't-
>> Brian Holt: This is-
>> Speaker 2: Like it exists.
>> Brian Holt: So
I guess this could be a problem, because
when you coerce undefined,
it's gonna be coerced to 0.
Right, so if you try to force undefined to
be a number, it's gonna be 0, I believe.
And so what happens if this was
a list of negative numbers?
0 is not in that list, so
yeah, it's gonna call list.
Now, the test case I gave you
were all positive numbers,
because I'm not really, as long as you
get the gist here, I'm fine, right?
>> Speaker 2: When you say
you force it to be a number,
is that what's happening with
the greater than sign if you're-
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so this is gonna say,
this only works with numbers.
And so it's like okay, well you didn't
give me a number, so I'm gonna try and
force this to be a number.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so
before it was undefined, and now it's 0?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
>> Speaker 2: The first time, okay.
>> Brian Holt: So in reality, if you
wanted to make this truly bulletproof,
we would go back to where I was here and
start this at 1.
And then you'd have to have
a check here at the front.
That if list.length === 0,
return probably undefined, right?
Because there's no largest
number in a list of 0, or
whatever you wanna return,
something like that.
So let's see if that actually
passes my tests down here.
And you can see down here
I got more tests passing.
>> Speaker 3: If I made largest just 0,
how does that affect it?
>> Brian Holt: So you'll run into
the same problem that I had, which is,
what happens if I give you
a list of negative numbers?
0 is going to be the largest number there,
which it's not technically in the list,
right?
>> Speaker 3: Okay, got you.
>> Brian Holt: So it depends on how
flexible this needs to be, right?
If you were working on,
I don't know dates, right?
What's the largest date in a list?
There's no such thing as a zero date,
right?
So you can make the assumption
that everything's going
to be a positive integer.
So it kinda depends on the problem
domain that you're working on.
But if you want this to make this
the most flexible it can possibly be on,
it would have to be something like this.
Make sense?
Cool, good questions.
Do you have a question?
>> Speaker 4: In the first one, we have to
create a new list to store the new list.
Because we're coming up with new values,
cuz we're adding 2 to each value.
In the second one, we're just moving
things around in the array, so
we don't need a new list.
>> Brian Holt: So this one here,
findLargestNumber?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, is it because
we're just moving them around?
>> Brian Holt: So you're not expecting
to return a list here, right?
Because largest number,
right, findLargestNumber,
this belies the fact that we're
gonna return a number, not a list.
>> Speaker 4: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So here,
what is largest gonna be?
largest is just gonna be one number,
right?
It's not gonna be a list of numbers, we're
not returning the list of largest numbers.
We're returning just the largest number,
does that make sense?
>> Speaker 4: Thank you.
>> Brian Holt: Whereas up here,
addTwoToEveryNumberInTheList,
this belies the fact that we're going to
be returning some sort of list, right?
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Makes sense?
Okay, good question.
So return dog object here.
So we're gonna make an object that has
a speak method, that has a name property.
[COUGH] That has a name property,
a color property, and an age property.
>> Brian Holt: So
let's go through and knock those out.
So the first one is,
we're gonna give it a speak method.
And this is going to return "woof", right?
Cuz that's what we asked for right there.
Has a name property of Fido, name: "Fido".
>> Brian Holt: color: "white" and
age of 6.
And I think that should be enough.
>> Brian Holt: You can see down there,
I passed a bunch more tests.
Just kinda to show you how to construct
objects, you can return objects and
pass them around.
Any questions about that?
>> Brian Holt: Great.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, getListOfNames.
So this list is gonna be an array
of objects that look like this.
With name being some person,
jobTitle being something, and
age being some number, right?
Here we're gonna be expecting some sort of
array of names going back that are very
likely not going to be Game of
Thrones characters, unfortunately.
>> Brian Holt: So
there's a bunch of ways to do this.
I showed you my favorite way,
which is gonna be map.
I'll probably just show
you both ways to do it.
So const names =,
I'll show you map first, list.map.
This is gonna take in a person object,
right?
And you can put an arrow function there or
however you choose to do it.
Let's just do it the other way, so you can
be a little more clear, function (person).
And then here we just have to return
whatever we wanna keep in the list, right?
So here I wanna return person.name.
>> Brian Holt: And
then here I want to return names.
>> Brian Holt: That should be enough.
Okay, so that that passes this way.
>> Brian Holt: Do you wanna see
if I can make it even shorter?
Let's make it even shorter.
So this is probably how I would
actually write it, list.map.
Then there's a thing here
called destructuring.
>> Brian Holt: So
this actually does exactly the same thing,
you don't have to know this right now.
I'm just trying to show you that you
can get even more clever with these.
But just so
if you are curious as to how this works,
>> Brian Holt: This
is saying that I'm getting an object.
So this is replacing this
person thing right here, right?
And I know inside of that object
there's something called name, and
I want you to pull it out and
call it name.
So now I have a variable called name
that's coming out of person, and
it's just ignoring the rest of the object.
Does that make sense so far?
Right, so it's just pulling out this part,
and it's leaving everything else behind,
okay?
Then here, where this is doing exactly
what this function does right here,
it's just the shorthand for it.
Remember I told you yesterday that if you
don't put curly braces on something that
it just has an implicit return?
So that's what this is doing,
it's returning that name
that we're pulling out here.
So if I comment that out,
this should still work the same way.
>> Brian Holt: Right, it does.
>> Brian Holt: So
you don't have to know that today.
I just wanted to show you that there
is some pretty cool tricks with
JavaScript that you can do.
Okay, now let's just go ahead and
run through it with a for loop as well.
So here I would have const names = [],
right?
And then I'm gonna have a for loop,
let i = 0; i is less than,
what did I call up here, list?
Yeah, list.length.
>> Brian Holt: i++, and
then here you're gonna
say names.push(list[i].name).
This will also work.
>> Brian Holt: So all three of these
things accomplish the same task,
just in relatively different ways.
And you could actually do this
with the forEach as well.
So it would look relatively
similar to this,
where you'd just be pushing
names into some other list.
Yeah, yes?
>> Speaker 2: Sorry, so
what does the second line,
where it's name.push,
what are you putting onto the list?
What are you adding?
>> Brian Holt: That's a good question.
So let's break this into multiple lines so
it's a little less dense.
That's usually a good strategy for
deciphering what things mean.
So const currentName = list[i],
let's even break it further down.
So const person = list[i], so
this is gonna pull the person
out of the list, right?
The next one is gonna say
const name = person.name.
And then you're gonna
say names.push(name).
>> Brian Holt: So
these three lines are the same thing,
this is just condensed all into one line.
So you're pulling the person out here,
right?
That's what this list[i] part does, is it
grabs the person that you need, right?
Then we're grabbing the name,
that's the .name part here, and
we're pulling that off.
And then we're passing that into
names here, into the push function.
Is that clear?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, that's cool.
>> Brian Holt: So
either one of those is gonna work,
let's just,
>> Brian Holt: Stick with the more clear
one, that's good.